Android 5.0 runs across our favorite
screens from phones to tablets wearables
TVs and even cars I'm Ankur Kotwal a
developer advocate at Google and I'm
going to show you the developer
highlights of this tasty new treat let's
start with material design material
design is a new approach for designing
apps in today's multi-device world that
takes a comprehensive strategy to visual
motion and interaction design Android
5.0 brings material design to the
platform with a full set of tools for
implementing it in your apps the system
is incredibly flexible allowing your app
to express its individual character and
brand with bold colors and a variety of
responsive UI patterns and femural
elements the support library has also
been updated to provide backward
compatible UI widgets allowing you to
bring the modern beauty of material
design to all the devices next the lock
screen lets you surface content updates
and actions to users at a glance without
needing them to unlock their device the
notification API is provide visibility
controls to let you declare the
sensitivity of information displayed on
your notifications this is particularly
important as users can choose to show or
hide sensitive content on their
lockscreen instant messaging app should
declare their notification content to be
private whilst media playback apps
should declare this to be public
heads-up notifications display content
and actions in a small floating window
managed by the system no matter which
app is in the foreground notifications
are appropriately themed and you can
express your brand further through
accent colors and other customizations
these enable your apps to prominently
notify users without pulling them out of
their current activity you can get
further details about the new
notification API S at the following
depth by web view has been updated to
chromium M 37 bringing security
enhancements stability enhancements and
bug fixes with this release WebRTC Web
Audio and WebGL are included but here's
some awesome news webview is now
unbundled from the system and can be
updated through Google
play this will provide the latest web
enhancements to users and the latest web
api strudle is that another cool
initiative is project Volta which
focuses on improving battery life and
has resulted in power optimizations
across the platform these are new tools
to help your app run efficiently and
conserve power battery historian a tool
included in the SDK lets you visualize
power events over time and understand
how your app is using power the
jobscheduler API lets you minimize
battery impact by setting the conditions
under which your background tasks and
other jobs should run such as when the
device is idle connected to an unneeded
network or to a charger the job
scheduler is one of my favorite new API
is Android 5.0 ships with the Android
runtime known as ARP as the system
default art offers ahead of time
compilation more efficient garbage
collection and improved development and
debugging features in many cases it
improves the performance of your app
without you having to change your code
64-bit support has also come to Android
in this release
it adds 64-bit abis provides additional
address space and improve performance
with certain types of compute workloads
apps written in Java are running on Dex
byte code can benefit on 64-bit
architectures with no code changes for
apps and games that use native code NDK
release 10b includes 64-bit support and
is available for download another new
feature is concurrent documents in
recents which lets you organize your app
into tasks and present these
concurrently as individual documents on
the recent screen for example each
chrome tab can now be a separate
document in recent users can flip
through reasons to find the specific
chrome tab they want and jump straight
to that site with a single tab a new set
of capabilities is Android in the
workplace which enables a unified
interaction model across both personal
and workplace apps making it easier for
employees to have a single device for
personal and workplace use
framework enhancements offer a unified
view of apps notifications and reasons
in a single launcher across both
personal and workplace apps for photo
lovers the camera to API gives you new
API s for managing image capture and
processing on supported devices your app
can capture uncompress y UV captures in
full 8 megapixel resolution at 30 frames
per second the API lets you capture raw
sensor data and control parameters such
as exposure time ISO sensitivity and
frame duration on a per frame basis you
can get further details about using this
API at the following dev by there are a
boatload of new features for game
developers starting with support for
OpenGL ES 3.0 compute shaders stencil
textures and text together for your
games Android extension pack is a new
set of extensions to OpenGL ES that
bring desktop class graphics to android
games will be able to take advantage of
tessellation and geometry shaders and
use ASTC texture compression across
multiple GPU technologies the sound
architecture has been enhanced resulting
in lower input latency and the addition
of multi-channel mixing this devbyte
covers enhancements for game developers
in more detail Android 5.0 has new
connectivity features devices can now
function in Bluetooth low-energy
peripheral mode or ble peripheral mode
apps can use this feature to broadcast
their presence to nearby devices for
example you can now build apps that let
a device function of the pedometer or
health monitor and transmit data to
another ble device apps can also work
with the system to dynamically scan for
available networks with specific
capabilities and then automatically
connect this is useful for when you want
to manage handoffs to connect to a
specialized network such as a carrier
billing network there are many more
api's in android 5.0 over 5,000 of them
in fact you can get started developing
and testing on Android 5.0 right away by
downloading the Android 5.0 platform and
latest support library from the SDK
manager I look forward to seeing your
beautiful material design apps on
screens everywhere
you